## Alex Sheriff's Projects
The following are a list of notable projects that I have completed during my stay at Monmouth University.

### Length of Stay Hospital Project
This project was part of my Graduate Assistantship at Monmouth University as I was studying for my M.S. in Software Engineering. The general purpose is to use Machine Learning models to predict how many days a patient would stay at a hospital based on criteria like APR DRG Code, CCS Diagnostic Code, CCS Procedure Code, and others. I researched and applied concepts like Undersampling, Oversampling, SMOTE, One Hot Encoding, and Feature Analysis to achieve an 76% accuracy with a Random Forest Tree Supervised learning model. Other models used include Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Ada Boost, and Gradient Boost. With the guidance of my supervisor, we were able to publish an IEEE paper which can be found at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9736254. (An unofficial version of this paper (LOS_Paper_V1) can be found in the project folder -- The IEEE published paper did not discuss the results we found incorporating SMOTE and One Hot Encoding. That paper will be published at an later date)

### Rock Paper Scissors Robots
This project was using two NAO Robots to play the classic game "Rock Paper Scissors" against each other or against a human. We developed the code with the theory of a finite state machine in mind so the robots could theoretically play indefinitely or play best of 3/5/etc. We sync start times of the two robots, and they listen to a series of keywords to begin the game and randomly choose an integer which represents R/P/S. The robot passes that choice into the python logic box and also listens via voice recognition for the opposing robots/humans choice which is then also passed into the python logic box. The logic box then produces the winner and the game can be started again. Demos of Robot vs Robot and Robot vs Myself are in the RPS Robots folder, as well a picture of the interworking "brain" of the robot and a python file that contains the logic to determine the winner. The choregraphe file (what is needed for the robot to run) itself can be provided upon request.

### RecipeAPI (Python Flask, SQLite, and some HTML/CSS)
This project was a prototype for an API that allowed me to filter through a database of recipes and view recipes based on a certain ingredient. There are four main functions: view all recipes, view all ingredients, search for recipes, and filter by ingredient. The sqlite database is comprised of 3 tables: the recipe table, an ingredient table, and a relationship table linking many ingredients to one recipe. You can start the site by running api_db.py, or look at a powerpoint showing off some of the code and html pages.

### Shoeters - An E-Commerce Website
Originally hosted via AWS Lightsail with WordPress, I assisted in building an secure website for my Secure Web Services Design class. We integrated AWS services with security in mind in order to make the website as robust and secure from vulnerabilities as possible. CloudFlare was used to provide SSL, which also came with a built in firewall. Generally speaking, we made an effort to configure the website with the resources we had available (i.e. We weren't interested in spending a lot of money for school project, some "securities" werent actually implemented) With that being said we configured the site with a Lightsail firewall, WAF, DDoS protection, brute force attack prevention, input validation, database encryption, autoscaling via alarms (With AWS EventBridge and ELB), instance termination policies to improve site response times, secure single-sign on and federation, as well as third-party payment provided with Stripe and Google Pay. A video demonstrating the website can be found above, as well as the final presentation ppt. Access to the website is no longer available.

### Powershell Trojan
This is a project I worked on with a partner in my CyberSecurity class at Monmouth University. The general idea is that we send an email to a individual containing a .exe file. This file takes you to a website with a cookie recipe, and in the background writes a .cmd file to your OS Startup folder. Next time you restart or turn on your computer, a pop-up will occur displaying "You're a Jerk" which you'll have to click through 6 times before it goes away. Although very simple, it demonstrates how invasive a simple program could be. A demonstration of how this Trojan works can be found [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMx90HvHN9Y&feature=emb_logo), furthermore a  technical report and presentation powerpoint can be found in the project folder.

### Idle Adventure Mockup
Idle Adventure is a mobile game concept. Designed in Adobe XD, this was my first experience designing an app in Adobe XD. A functional product does not exist. "Idle Adventure is a game concept created by Alex Sheriff for his SE-402 Class at Monmouth University. You can gather supplies to upgrade your party members, and send those party members out on quests. Furthermore, as you are playing you will be subjected to "encounters" which will give you an opportunity to gain more supply, or lose some. Have fun!" (Taken from the 'Game Statistics' Panel)

### YogaGuruRails
This was a group project I worked on with two other students in my Software Process Improvement (SE403) class at Monmouth University. We worked with a grad assistant acting as a client who wanted a website for her yoga company. We learned a lot about software development and working with clients and the overall life cycle of a software product. The site was made with Ruby on Rails. You can access the website [here](https://yoga-guru-rails.herokuapp.com/)
